Oculus VR, Inc. Software Development Kit License Agreement 1.00
Copyright © 2013 Oculus VR, Inc.  All rights reserved.

1.	Subject to the terms and conditions of this License Agreement (the 
“License”), Oculus VR, Inc. (“Oculus VR”) hereby grants to you a perpetual, 
worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, fully sublicenseable 
copyright license to use, reproduce, redistribute, modify, and improve the 
software contained in this Software Development Kit (“SDK”).  This license 
includes the right to prepare derivative works (“Derivative Works”), 
whether in source, binary, or object form, based on the SDK including third 
party software unless otherwise noted.  Derivative Works are defined as 
source, binary or object code derived exclusively from the SDK; provided, 
however, that Derivative Works do not include engines, utilities, 
applications, content or games which may be developed using the SDK.  By 
way of example a videogame that is developed using the SDK would not be a 
Derivative Work and a utility or tool set in a pre-existing game engine 
that is adapted to work with the SDK would not be a Derivative Work.   By 
way of example, but not limitation, a Derivative Work is or would be: 
either (i) an adaptation of a utility or piece of code from the SDK to 
improve efficiency; or (ii) an addition of code or improvement to the SDK 
that adds functionality.  When you use the SDK (including Derivative Works) 
with your engines, utilities, applications, content or games you retain all 
rights thereto, and you have no obligations to share or license these items 
to Oculus or any third parties.

2.	You, the recipient and user of the SDK, hereby agree and accept that 
that Oculus VR shall own all right, title and interest to the intellectual 
property rights, including, but limited to copyright, trademark and patent 
rights, to any Derivative Works that you or your licensees may create, and 
you hereby assign any and all such rights to such Derivative Works to 
Oculus VR.   We hereby grant to you the right to use these Derivative Works 
solely in conjunction with the SDK on a fully paid up, no-charge, 
royalty-free, world-wide, in perpetuity, non-exclusive basis.  Furthermore, 
for the sake of clarification, Oculus VR and its assignees and licensees 
shall be free to use such Derivative Works without any approval from you 
and without compensation or attribution to you.  You also agree upon Oculus 
VR’s request to provide the source and binary code of any Derivative Works 
to Oculus VR.  FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH THIS REQUEST IS THE BASIS FOR 
AUTOMATIC TERMINATION OF THIS LICENSE BY OCULUS VR.

3.	Subject to the terms and conditions of this License, your license to 
redistribute and sublicense the SDK and Derivate Works is also expressly 
made subject to the following conditions:  

3.1.	You may only sublicense and redistribute the source, binary, or 
object code of the SDK as a whole, and may not redistribute or sublicense 
any portion or element of the SDK separately by itself.  You may only 
redistribute or sublicense Derivative Works solely with and as part of the 
SDK.  The SDK may not be used, licensed, or sublicensed to interface with 
commercial headsets not authorized and approved by Oculus VR.

3.2.	You must include with all such redistributed or sublicensed SDK 
code the following copyright notice: “Copyright © 2013 Oculus VR, Inc.  All 
rights reserved,” and include the list of conditions contained in this 
Section 3, including the full text of the disclaimer in Section 3.6 below; 

3.3.	Neither the name of Oculus VR, Inc. nor the names of Oculus VR, 
Inc.’s contributors, licensors, employees, or contractors, may be used to 
endorse or promote products derived from this SDK without specific prior 
written permission of Oculus VR, Inc.; 

3.4.	You must give any other recipients of the SDK or Derivative Works a 
copy of this License and you must cause any modified files to carry 
prominent notices stating that you changed the files; 

3.5.	If the SDK includes a "NOTICE" text file as part of its 
distribution, then any Derivative Works that you distribute with the SDK 
must include a readable copy of the attribution notices contained within 
such NOTICE file, excluding those notices that do not pertain to any part 
of the Derivative Works, in at least one of the following places: within a 
NOTICE text file distributed as part of the Derivative Works; within the 
source form or documentation, if provided along with the Derivative Works; 
or, within a display generated by the Derivative Works, if and wherever 
such third-party notices normally appear. The contents of the NOTICE file 
are for informational purposes only and do not modify the License. You may 
add your own attribution notices within Derivative Works that you 
distribute, alongside or as an addendum to the NOTICE text from the SDK, 
provided that such additional attribution notices cannot be construed as 
modifying the License. 

3.6.	THIS SDK IS PROVIDED BY OCULUS VR AND ITS CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND 
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE 
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE 
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OCULUS VR AS THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR 
ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, 
EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, 
PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; 
OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, 
WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR 
OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SDK OR THE DERIVATIVE 
WORKS, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

4.	This License does not grant permission to use the trade names, 
trademarks, service marks, or product names of Oculus VR, except as 
required for reasonable and customary use in describing the origin of the 
SDK and reproducing the content of the NOTICE file.

5.	In no event and under no legal theory, whether in tort (including 
negligence), contract, or otherwise, unless required by applicable law 
(such as deliberate and grossly negligent acts) or agreed to in writing, 
shall Oculus VR or any contributor be liable to you or your licensees or 
sublicensees for damages, including any direct, indirect, special, 
incidental, or consequential damages of any character arising as a result 
of this License or out of the use or inability to use the SDK or any 
Derivative Works (including but not limited to damages for loss of 
goodwill, work stoppage, computer failure or malfunction, or any and all 
other commercial damages or losses), even if you or such contributor has 
been advised of the possibility of such damages.

6.	Your acceptance of the terms and conditions of this License may be 
evidenced by any of the following: your usage of the SDK, acceptance of the 
click-through agreement, or opening the packaging of the CD-ROM containing 
the SDK.  
