.TH PVIEW 1 "1 May 2015" "" Panda3D
.SH NAME
pview \- quickly view a Panda model and/or animation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pview
[
.I opts
]
.I model
[
.I model ...
]
.br
.B pview \-h
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBpview\fP opens a quick Panda window for viewing one or more models
and/or animations.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-a
Convert and play animations, if loading an external file type
(like .mb) directly and if the converter supports animations.
Also implicitly enables the animation controls.
.TP
.B \-c
Automatically center models within the viewing window on startup.
This can also be achieved with the 'c' hotkey at runtime.
.TP
.B \-l
Open the window before loading any models with the text "Loading"
displayed in the window.  The default is not to open the window
until all models are loaded.
.TP
.B \-i
Ignore bundle/group names.  Normally, the <group> name must match
the <bundle> name, or the animation will not be used.
.TP
.BI "\-s " filename
After displaying the models, immediately take a screenshot and
exit.
.TP
.B \-D
Delete the model files after loading them (presumably this option
will only be used when loading a temporary model file).
.TP
.B \-L
Enable lighting in the scene.  This can also be achieved with 
the 'l' hotkey at runtime.
.TP
.BI "\-P " pipename
Select the given graphics pipe for the window, rather than using
the platform default.  The allowed values for <pipe> are those 
from the Config.prc variables 'load-display' and 'aux-display'.
.TP
.B \-V
Report the current version of Panda, and exit.
.TP
.B \-h
Display this help text.
