.TH PZIP 1 "27 December 2014" "" Panda3D
.SH NAME
pzip, punzip \- compress or decompress files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pzip
.I file
[
.I file2 file3 ...
]
.br
.B pzip -c < \fIfile\fB > \fIdest_file\fB
.br
.B pzip -o
.I dest_file file
.PP
.B punzip
.I file.pz
[
.I file2.pz file3.pz ...
]
.br
.B punzip -c < \fIfile.pz\fB > \fIdest_file\fB
.br
.B punzip -o
.I dest_file file.pz
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBpzip\fP program compresses the named file(s) using the Panda
native compression algorithm (gzip in practice, but with a different
file header).  The compressed versions are written to a file with the
same name as the original, but the extension .pz added to the
filename, and the original file is removed (unless the version with
\fB\-o\fP is used, in which case you can compress only one file, you
specify the destination file name, and the original file is not removed).
.PP
In many cases, Panda can read the resulting .pz file directly,
exactly as if it were still in its uncompressed original form.
In fact, unless \fBvfs\-implicit\-pz\fP is set to \fBfalse\fP in your
Config.prc file, you can also load the file by referencing it with its
original filename (without the .pz extension), even though it no longer
exists under that filename, and Panda will find the .pz file and
transparently decompress it on the fly, as if the original, uncompressed
file still existed.
.PP
Note that if you are adding files to a Panda multifile (.mf file) with the
.BR multify (1)
command, it is not necessary to encrypt them separately; \fBmultify\fP has an
inline encryption option.
.PP
\fBpunzip\fP reverses the operation of a previous \fBpzip\fP command.
It uncompresses the contents of the named source file(s) and removes
the .pz extension.
.SH OPTIONS
These options apply to \fBpzip\fP only.
.TP
.B \-1
compress faster
.TP
.B \-6
compress default
.TP
.B \-9
compress better (intermediate compression levels supported also)
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR multify (1)
